<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept outputclass="Section" id="Section_3401_602_3_T48_703161412">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber">3401.602-3</ph> Ratification of unauthorized commitments.</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) <i>Definitions.</i> As used in this subpart, <i>commitment</i> includes issuance of letters of intent and arrangements for free vendor services or use of equipment with the promise or the appearance of commitment that a contract, modification, or order will, or may, be awarded.
</p>
         <p props="Runin" outputclass="List1">(b) <i>Policy.</i> 
				     </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) 
			The Government is not bound by agreements with, or contractual commitments made to, prospective contractors by individuals who do not have delegated contracting authority or by contracting officers acting in excess of the limits of their delegated authority. Unauthorized commitments do not follow the appropriate process for the expenditure of Government funds. Consequently, the Government may not be able to ratify certain actions, putting a contractor at risk for taking direction from a Federal official other than the contracting officer. See FAR 1.602–1. Government employees responsible for unauthorized commitments are subject to disciplinary action.
</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) The HCA must review and sign or reject all ratification requests, with the exception that the Chief of the Contracting Office is authorized to review and sign or reject ratification requests for unauthorized commitments up to $25,000.




</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
